---
template: SinglePost
title: What To Look For In A Partner As An ENTP
status: Published
date: '2018-12-28'
featuredImage: /images/datingadvice.jpg
categories:
  - category: Video Notes
  - category: ENTP
excerpt: >-
  10 Tips to help younger ENTPs, who aren't so sure of what to look for or whats right for them.

  This video may be able to give some pointers on what might be good for you in a partner and help you avoid wasting your time with people that don't understand, or work well with you.
meta:
  description: >-
    10 Tips to help younger ENTPs, who aren't so sure of what to look for or whats right for them.
  title: What To Look For In A Partner As An ENTP
---


Just a little bit of a disclaimer first, this post is going to focus on what to 'look' for in a partner as an ENTP, and some things that might trip you up, set you back, or waste your time.

This is also just my 'advice' - I probably view relationships very differently to most people, and think that in society we should first put a focus on the self, improve and approve of ourselves, and if our partner doesn't compliment that, or if we are trying to use them to cover up a pain or a flaw then we are doing ourselves a disservice in the long run. So this is going to be a bunch of points in using your 'discernment' in choosing the right partner for you, rather then 'getting' or 'keeping' whoever you currently fancy and are obsessed with. Of course this advice might be more geared towards younger ENTPs, who are not yet so aware of their own cycles, or what is 'best' for them, and may

Do you know yourself, truly? Have you been able to stay focused with new fascinations and wants, have you been able to cut a clear line of focus through a degree or a career path? As 'focus' and 'knowing what you want or feel' are not necessarily going to come easily to the ENTP (Although with a little bit of effort and maturation they certainly can), then it stands to reason its going to be the same for relationships. Therefore its best you take a step back and get to know yourself and what you need and want in a relationship, before diving into one, fixing, and running the risk of becoming too loyal or attached. I will talk about some of the probable needs you might have as this video continues.

**1. LOOK FOR A GROUNDED INDIVIDUAL:** First thing I would recommend is some-one grounding. Perhaps someone more organised, or tuned into the needs of every day life, such as cleaning, planning, time-management, food preparation. Yet if they are going to be contributing to you as an intuitive perceiver all these ways, you also have to be finding ways to give them what they need to make the relationship work

**2. ASCERTAIN IF YOU LIKE THEM, OR ARE JUST FASCINATED (MOMENTARILY):** Take time to pay attention to the person, your feelings and desires for them. Are they really right for you, are they someone that can hold your interest long term? Or are you just currently fascinated with their mind and want to learn everything about them?

**3. ARE THEY OPEN TO YOUR LOGIC AND PROBLEM SOLVING?:** As an Ne/Ti user you are focused on possibilities, patterns and systems, and you will usually like to solve problems. Therefore, if this person is not open to your information or problem solving skills, perhaps continuing to make mistakes or cause issues for themselves that you easily see a fix for, then you are going to end up depleted

**4. CAN THEY KEEP UP WITH YOU?** Are they at least going to be interested in your concepts and ideas? Do they find you interesting? Do they make you feel comfortable to be you. With inferior SI, an ENTP is really concerned about the experience they are receiving from other people, so you are most likely going to bond and become loyal with someone who is focused on the experience they are going to give (Se users for example)

**5. ARE THEY INTERESTED IN THE TRUTH?:** a LOT of ENTPs and INTPs are quite focused on finding the truth in life, and sharing that with people, yet most of their life people can reject them for that, not everyone wants to hear the truth, they want to stay in the safe bubble of their own reality. This kind of person is not going to be a good choice for you, not only will your growth be stifled, and that development of your Ti, you may likely be repeating old traumas from growing up if you had an incredibly strict or rigid family, who weren’t comfortable with your views on the world.

**6. CAN YOU TAKE OFF YOUR MASK WITH THEM?** Adaptable ENTPs, quickly learn with Ne, Ti, and Fe that people are not always fond of their way of looking at the world, they learn to adapt, and put on masks for different styles of people, depending on who they are around. Yet as an ENTP, you will never truly 'respect' 'bond' or become loyal to people you have to put on a mask for, so do yourself a favour and don't waste your time with them when looking for deeper and committed relationships. An ENTP does best when they allow themselves to say the truth and facts, even if people wont understand it.

**7. ARE THEY OVERLY EMOTIONAL?** ENTPS can become empathetic towards other peoples feelings and needs, and with Fe, it is important they are going to have a partner that respects their space, time alone, and sometimes the need for a lack of emotions. I personally prefer to be neutral most of the time, not too happy, not too sad, just normal, neutral, if I go beyond this state too often it will start to drain me, so if I have a partner that is overly emotional and all over their place, my emotions are also all over the place which leads into

**8. WILL THEY SHAME YOU FOR NEUTRALITY?** Particularly with Fi trickster, you may not always be able to fix on what is wrong or right. An ENTP will likely be aware that wrong or right differs and varies according to person to person. For example, in one culture it is not okay have sex before marriage, but in another culture its fine. An ENTP knows that wrong or right can be incredibly intrinsic to a persons 'morals' or 'value' system, which may not be based on truth. Sometimes this feels like an ENTP might not have morals themselves, and they can be accused of being bad people. Double check and discern if your partner is someone that can at least accept and appreciate that about you.

**9. DO THEY REALLY WANT YOU?** An ENTP deep down, just wants to be loved and accepted for being themselves. They want someone that loves their mind, loves their ideas and WANTS them.

**10. WILL THEY GIVE YOU YOUR ALONE TIME?** AS AN ENTP when you are interested on a project you can hone in, focus, and want to spend all your time exploring it. It would be wise to pick a partner that understands sometimes, you just want to be alone, and sometimes, you need to process all the information you have gathered alone sometimes, with your TI

These are just the things I would focus on now, being a 28 year old woman. I actually tended to avoid many relationships. For years, I was single for 8 years, and I thought that due to my quirks, way of seeing the world, and interest in the truth, and also sometimes my akwardness and inability to connect would have me single forever. For me, I found it better to be single, rather than settle down with anyone that wasn't right for me. As an ENTP there are so many interesting things you can do with your time, so many things to learn, so many things to understand, so don't ever sell yourself short.

If you found this insightful, or it helped you, let me know. Please give a like or a [subscribe on my youtube channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCAhrQnqRvvTyPhHWeuB3wnw), so I can continue to evolve it.
